Now, let's switch gears and change our focus to the second part of our solution,
the SQL Server and availability groups part.
So what are some of the most common things that can go wrong
with SQL Server running on Kubernetes?
Well, I guess surprisingly,
most of these are the same issues you need to worry about when
you're working with any network SQL Server instance.
First, connectivity to your SQL Server instance is your number‑one priority.
You need to make sure you can connect to your SQL Server instance using one
of the management tools like SQL Server Management Studio,
Azure Data Studio, or SQL Command.
And while you can change it,
the default port that you use to connect to SQL Server is 1433.
Likewise, the default port for availability groups is 5022.
In a Kubernetes deployment,
that means you need to have a service like a load‑balancing service or
a node port opened up for those SQL Server ports.
Without adding the correct ports,
you won't be able to connect to your SQL Server instances.
Next, the SQL Server service itself needs to be started.
This service is named mssql‑server,
and you can check it using the systemctl status command.
Another common connectivity issue is using the correct user ID and password.
For simplicity, all the examples here used SA,
but in a production environment, you wouldn't want to use that.
Instead,
you'd need to add your own logins and grant the
appropriate permissions to those logins.
If you have trouble connecting with these examples that you've seen here,
you might want to make sure that you're using the correct password,
and you can use the kubectl get secrets code that we covered earlier,
to double‑check that you're using the correct values for your passwords.
In addition,
you typically want to change the SA password after your initial deployment.
You could do that using T‑SQL or SQL Server Management Studio.
The SQL Server on Linux implementation that we're using here also
provides a command line tool called the mssql config,
or mssql‑conf,
that you can use with the set‑sa‑password argument to update the SA password.
The mssql config tool can also change the default port,
and enable availability groups as well.
Next, there are also several issues that can impact availability groups.
First, availability group support needs to be enabled.
When you're using the Microsoft Linux images,
the easiest way to make sure that this is enabled is simply by using the MSSQL
ENABLE HADR environment variable, and giving it a value of 1,
and you can do this when you start your container.
If you're using a custom image of SQL Server,
you can use that mssql config tool to enable the availability groups.
Next, you need to make sure the replicas can communicate with each other.
Availability group replicas communicate by using endpoints,
and the default port for the endpoints is 5022.
This value can be changed during the availability group configuration.
However, the Kubernetes load‑balancing service,
or node port service,
needs to make sure that whatever endpoint port you're using,
it's opened up on all the replicas.
Next, if things aren't working right,
the SQL Server error log can provide some really
useful troubleshooting information.
You can view the error log using SQL Server Management Studio,
or by going to the /var/opt/mssql/log directory that contains the error log,
and then running the cat errorlog command that you can see here,
and that will display the error log.
You know,
another common problem that you can run into with availability groups is that
replication can stop when the transaction log fills up,
and your servers will no longer be able to perform updates.
One of the most common causes for this is if the link
between replicas is interrupted,
and those transaction logs can't be forwarded from the
primary to the secondary replicas.
If this happens, the transaction log will eventually fill up,
and the database will no longer be able to perform updates.
You can check the health of your availability groups using SQL Server
Management Studio or by using a set of dynamic management views that
I'll show you in the next couple slides.
These can help you determine if your availability group connections are healthy,
or if you need to perform some sort of additional type
of network or system troubleshooting.
SQL Server provides a number of dynamic management views,
or DMVs,
that return all sorts of server state information that can be
used to monitor the health of a server instance,
diagnose problems, and tune performance.
Like you would expect,
SQL Server provides a number of DMVs that can be used to
troubleshoot and get information about availability groups.
To access these DMVs, you need to query them.
You can see how to use two of them in this slide.
The first one, the sys.availability_groups,
can be used to list the different availability groups that are on a system.
Remember,
SQL Server supports multiple availability groups on a system at the same time.
The second query here shows how we can use the
sys.dm_hadr_availability_group_states DMV to get
information about the health of a primary replica.
Next,
there are also DMVs that you can use to get information
about the availability group replicas, the primary and the secondaries.
Here,
the sys.dm_hadr_availability_replica_states DMV shows how you can
get information about the connection status,
and the health of all the different replicas in an availability group.
Then,
the next query shows how you can use the
sys.availability_replicas DMV to get the configuration
information for the different replicas in an availability group.
Finally,
there is also a DMV that can give you information about the status of the
databases that are included in that availability group.
The sys.dm_hadr_database_replica_states DMV provides information about
the databases that are part of an availability group.
Here,
you can see a query that retrieves the availability groups status information.
It joins to the sys.databases and the sys.availability_replicas tables to get
human‑readable information for the database and replica names.
The rest of the query returns information about the
database in the availability group, including the synchronization_state,
the synchronization_health, as well as the last hardened log sequence number.
Essentially, that's basically the last transaction log that was written to disk.
It also shows you the redo log size, and log send size.
If those values are high,
it could definitely indicate a connection problem between your replicas. Okay, let's see these in action.